Wiki/anonymized-database.md, before:

# Anonymized database
### Anonymized database

In some cases, it's necessary to see the database structure to be able to debug the problem. Of course, we can't ask you to send us [Document](document.md) file with your notes.

For this, Trilium supports anonymization of the database - you can trigger this in Options -> Advanced tab.

![](images/anonymization.png)

This will create a copy of your document and remove all sensitive data (currently note titles, contents, revisions, history and some of the options, and non-system attributes) while leaving all structure and metadata (e.g. date of last change). After this is done, the database is [VACUUMed](https://sqlite.org/lang_vacuum.html) to make sure there's no stale sensitive data in the document file. The resulting file is stored in `anonymized` directory (placed in the [data directory](data-directory.md)). You can safely attach it with your bug report or send it to [zadam.apps@gmail.com](#root/N3Zt66yETj9g) %%{WARNING}%%

#### Command line anonymization

If the database is corrupted in a way which prevents Trilium to start up, you won't be able to trigger the anonymization from the UI. For such a case, anonymization is also available from command line:

```text-plain
node src/anonymize.js
```

This needs to be executed in the directory with Trilium source files, for desktop builds this in `resources/app` directory.

Commit message:

Initial review -> Master for upcoming Notes release (#101)
* #84

* #84 - fix more grammar issues

* #84 - fix more grammar issues

* Some more :D

* Update #14

* Make changes @root-hal9000 suggested

* Updated Document article

Among other edits, renamed the "document" concept to be called what it actually is, the database - which could help avoid confusion with the concept of "note"

* Changed all references to document to database

-  Changed references to document to say database
- Changed references to "demo document" to "demo notes"
-  renamed document.md to database.md and replaced in links
- Changed location of database in TOC to go under advanced usage
Issue #32

* fixed links change during merge conflict

* #84

* #83

* #82

* #81

* #81

* #79

* #78

* #75

* #74

* #72

* #71

* #68

* #64

* #61

* Review PR #94

* Review PR #94 - Url Encoding

* Add missing images

* add missing image to template.md

* template-create-instance-note.png

* closes #12

* Closes #16

* Closes #17

* Closes #18

* Closes #20

* Closes #31

* clarify the location of options

* add tics around `true` and add newline at end of file

* Remove period from non-sentence lines

* add "(or `viewType` attribute)"

* reference docker installation docs directly instead of other third party website.

* simplify wording

* Update docker image references

* Reference new documentation

* One more docker reference updated

* Remove documenation warning

* Remove warning label

---------

Co-authored-by: root-hal9000 <2352828+root-hal9000@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: MeIchthys <github.com@meichthys.com>

Wiki/anonymized-database.md, after:

# Anonymized Database

![screenshot of advanced settings](images/anonymization.png)

In certain scenarios, understanding the structure of a database is crucial for troubleshooting issues. However, sharing your actual [database](database.md) file with personal notes is not advisable. To address this, Trilium offers a feature to anonymize the database. This feature can be accessed via Menu -> Options -> Advanced tab.

This feature creates a copy of your database with all sensitive data removed. Specifically, it strips out note titles, contents, revisions, history, and some non-system attributes while retaining the overall structure and metadata, such as modification dates. After anonymization, the database undergoes a [vacuuming process](https://sqlite.org/lang_vacuum.html) to ensure no sensitive data remnants remain in the file. The anonymized database is saved in the `anonymized` directory within the [data directory](data-directory.md), making it safe to share with bug reports.

This will create a copy of your document and remove all sensitive data (currently note titles, contents, revisions, history and some of the options, and non-system attributes) while leaving all structure and metadata (e.g. date of last change). After this is done, the database is [VACUUMed](https://sqlite.org/lang_vacuum.html) to make sure there's no stale sensitive data in the document file. The resulting file is stored in `anonymized` directory (placed in the [data directory](data-directory.md)). You can safely attach it to a bug report.

## Command Line Anonymization

If your [database](database.md) is corrupted to the point where Trilium cannot start, the anonymization process can still be executed via the command line:

```sh
node src/anonymize.js
```

Run this command from the directory containing Trilium's source files, typically found in the `resources/app` directory for desktop builds.
