Wiki/attribute-inheritance.md, before:

# Attribute inheritance
Standard inheritance
--------------------

Every [attribute](attributes.md) has flag called `isInheritable`. If this is true, then this attribute (key-value) is also applied to all its children notes, children's children notes etc.

Example how this might be useful is `archived` label which hides its note from Jump to / Add link dialogs. Often times you want to archive some specific subtree, you can do this by making the `archived` label inheritable.

Copying inheritance
-------------------

A different kind of inheritance is achieved using `child:` attribute name prefix. We can define that when a note is created under a certain parent note then the new child note will automatically receive defined attributes. The difference from standard inheritance is that these are real new attributes which are completely independent of the parent and will be therefore kept even if the note is moved elsewhere in the note tree.

For defining the copy-attributes we use `child:` prefix in attribute name, the rest is defined normally. So as an example, when we create a child note in a note with `#child:exampleAttribute` label, then the child note will have `#exampleAttribute` label. This can be even chained, e.g. `#child:child:exampleAttribute`, in this case `#child:exampleAttribute` will be created in the child and `#exampleAttribute` will be created in the child of the child.

Which kind of attribute inheritance (or if any at all) should be used depends on the specific use case.

Template inheritance
--------------------

[Attribute template](template.md) could be also seen as a form of inheritance.

Commit message:

Initial review -> Master for upcoming Notes release (#101)
* #84

* #84 - fix more grammar issues

* #84 - fix more grammar issues

* Some more :D

* Update #14

* Make changes @root-hal9000 suggested

* Updated Document article

Among other edits, renamed the "document" concept to be called what it actually is, the database - which could help avoid confusion with the concept of "note"

* Changed all references to document to database

-  Changed references to document to say database
- Changed references to "demo document" to "demo notes"
-  renamed document.md to database.md and replaced in links
- Changed location of database in TOC to go under advanced usage
Issue #32

* fixed links change during merge conflict

* #84

* #83

* #82

* #81

* #81

* #79

* #78

* #75

* #74

* #72

* #71

* #68

* #64

* #61

* Review PR #94

* Review PR #94 - Url Encoding

* Add missing images

* add missing image to template.md

* template-create-instance-note.png

* closes #12

* Closes #16

* Closes #17

* Closes #18

* Closes #20

* Closes #31

* clarify the location of options

* add tics around `true` and add newline at end of file

* Remove period from non-sentence lines

* add "(or `viewType` attribute)"

* reference docker installation docs directly instead of other third party website.

* simplify wording

* Update docker image references

* Reference new documentation

* One more docker reference updated

* Remove documenation warning

* Remove warning label

---------

Co-authored-by: root-hal9000 <2352828+root-hal9000@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: MeIchthys <github.com@meichthys.com>

Wiki/attribute-inheritance.md, after:

# Attribute Inheritance in Trilium

## 1. Standard Inheritance

In Trilium, attributes can be automatically inherited by child notes if they have the `isInheritable` flag set to `true`. This means the attribute (a key-value pair) is applied to the note and all its descendants.

### Example Use Case

The `archived` label can be set to be inheritable, allowing you to hide a whole subtree of notes from searches and other dialogs by applying this label at the top level.

## 2. Copying Inheritance

Copying inheritance differs from standard inheritance by using a `child:` prefix in the attribute name. This prefix causes new child notes to automatically receive specific attributes from the parent note. These attributes are independent of the parent and will persist even if the note is moved elsewhere.

### How to Use

- **Syntax:** `#child:attributeName`
- **Chained Inheritance:** You can chain this inheritance, such as `#child:child:attributeName`, where each child down the hierarchy receives the appropriate attribute.

### Example

If a parent note has the label `#child:exampleAttribute`, all newly created child notes will inherit the `#exampleAttribute` label. This can be useful for setting default properties for notes in a specific section.

## 3. Template Inheritance

Attributes can also be inherited from [templates](template.md). When a new note is created using a template, it inherits the attributes defined in that template. This is particularly useful for maintaining consistency across notes that follow a similar structure or function.
