Wiki/tls-configuration.md, before:

# TLS-configuration
TLS configuration is required for \[\[server installation\]\]. The page below describes steps to set up TLS in Trilium itself. You might also opt for TLS termination using some reverse proxy (e.g. nginx), in that case follow a [guide like this](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-secure-nginx-with-let-s-encrypt-on-ubuntu-20-04).

First thing to do is to get a TLS certificate. You have two options:

*   Recommended - get TLS certificate signed by root certificate authority. For personal usage, the best choice is [Let's encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org). It's free, automated and easy. You can take a look at Certbot for automatic TLS setup.
*   generate your own self-signed certificate. You will have extra trouble with importing the certificate into all machines from which you connect to the server installation so this is not recommended.

Modifying config.ini
--------------------

Now that you have your certificate, we need to modify `config.ini` in the \[\[data directory\]\] so that Trilium will use it:

```text-plain
[Network]
port=8080
# true for TLS/SSL/HTTPS (secure), false for HTTP (unsecure).
https=true
# path to certificate (run "bash bin/generate-cert.sh" to generate self-signed certificate). Relevant only if https=true
certPath=/[username]/.acme.sh/[hostname]/fullchain.cer
keyPath=/[username]/.acme.sh/[hostname]/example.com.key
```

Above is only example of how this is set up on my environment when I generated the certificate using Let's encrypt acme utility. Your paths may be completely different. (Note that if you are using a Docker installation, these paths should be in a volume or other path understood by the docker container, e.g., /home/node/trilium-data/\[DIR IN DATA DIRECTORY\].)

After you set this up, you may restart Trilium and now visit the hostname with "https".

Self-signed certificate
-----------------------

If you need to use a self-signed certificate for your server instance, the desktop instance won't trust it.

Currently the only way to make this work is by disabling certificate validation by setting this environment variable (for Linux):

```text-plain
export NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED=0
trilium
```

Trilium comes with scripts to start Trilium in this mode, e.g. `trilium-no-cert-check.bat` for Windows.

\*\* Note that disabling TLS certificate validation is insecure, so do it only if you're sure you know what you're doing! \*\*

Commit message:

Initial review -> Master for upcoming Notes release (#101)
* #84

* #84 - fix more grammar issues

* #84 - fix more grammar issues

* Some more :D

* Update #14

* Make changes @root-hal9000 suggested

* Updated Document article

Among other edits, renamed the "document" concept to be called what it actually is, the database - which could help avoid confusion with the concept of "note"

* Changed all references to document to database

-  Changed references to document to say database
- Changed references to "demo document" to "demo notes"
-  renamed document.md to database.md and replaced in links
- Changed location of database in TOC to go under advanced usage
Issue #32

* fixed links change during merge conflict

* #84

* #83

* #82

* #81

* #81

* #79

* #78

* #75

* #74

* #72

* #71

* #68

* #64

* #61

* Review PR #94

* Review PR #94 - Url Encoding

* Add missing images

* add missing image to template.md

* template-create-instance-note.png

* closes #12

* Closes #16

* Closes #17

* Closes #18

* Closes #20

* Closes #31

* clarify the location of options

* add tics around `true` and add newline at end of file

* Remove period from non-sentence lines

* add "(or `viewType` attribute)"

* reference docker installation docs directly instead of other third party website.

* simplify wording

* Update docker image references

* Reference new documentation

* One more docker reference updated

* Remove documenation warning

* Remove warning label

---------

Co-authored-by: root-hal9000 <2352828+root-hal9000@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: MeIchthys <github.com@meichthys.com>

Wiki/tls-configuration.md, after:

# TLS Configuration

Configuring TLS is essential for [server installation](server-installation.md) in Trilium. This guide details the steps to set up TLS within Trilium itself.

For a more robust solution, consider using TLS termination with a reverse proxy (recommended, e.g., Nginx). You can follow a [guide like this](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-secure-nginx-with-let-s-encrypt-on-ubuntu-20-04) for such setups.

## Obtaining a TLS Certificate

You have two options for obtaining a TLS certificate:

- **Recommended**: Obtain a TLS certificate signed by a root certificate authority. For personal use, [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) is an excellent choice. It is free, automated, and straightforward. Certbot can facilitate automatic TLS setup.
- Generate a self-signed certificate. This option is not recommended due to the additional complexity of importing the certificate into all machines connecting to the server.

## Modifying `config.ini`

Once you have your certificate, modify the `config.ini` file in the [data directory](data-directory.md) to configure Trilium to use it:

```ini
[Network]
port=8080
# Set to true for TLS/SSL/HTTPS (secure), false for HTTP (insecure).
https=true
# Path to the certificate (run "bash bin/generate-cert.sh" to generate a self-signed certificate).
# Relevant only if https=true
certPath=/[username]/.acme.sh/[hostname]/fullchain.cer
keyPath=/[username]/.acme.sh/[hostname]/example.com.key
```

The above example shows how this is set up in an environment where the certificate was generated using Let's Encrypt's ACME utility. Your paths may differ. For Docker installations, ensure these paths are within a volume or another directory accessible by the Docker container, such as `/home/node/trilium-data/[DIR IN DATA DIRECTORY]`.

After configuring `config.ini`, restart Trilium and access the hostname using "https".

## Self-Signed Certificate

If you opt to use a self-signed certificate for your server instance, note that the desktop instance will not trust it by default.

To bypass this, disable certificate validation by setting the following environment variable (for Linux):

```sh
export NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED=0
trilium
```

Trilium provides scripts to start in this mode, such as `trilium-no-cert-check.bat` for Windows.

**Warning**: Disabling TLS certificate validation is insecure. Proceed only if you fully understand the implications.
