Wiki/tree-concepts.md, before:

# Tree concepts
This page describes some basic concepts related to the tree structure of notes in Trilium.

Note
----

Note is a central entity in Trilium. See [Note](note.md) for details.

Branch
------

Branch describes note placement in the note tree - in essence it's a tuple of parentNoteId and noteId which says that given note is placed as a child into this parent note.

Each note can have more than one such branches, in other words any note can have multiple placements in the tree. For lack of better word we call this "[cloning](cloning-notes.md)".

Prefix
------

Prefix is branch (placement) specific title prefix for the note. Let's say you have your note placed into two different places in the tree, but you want to change the title a bit in one of the placements. For this you can use prefix.

To edit prefix, right-click on a note in the tree pane and choose "Edit branch prefix".

Prefix is not part of the note itself and thus is not encrypted when the note is protected. That can be useful when you want to keep part of the title in the tree visible even when protected for easier orientation.

Subtree
-------

Subtree is a set of notes consisting of a particular note (subtree root) and all its children, children of these children (= all its descendants). Some operations work on subtrees (e.g. export).

Commit message:

Initial review -> Master for upcoming Notes release (#101)
* #84

* #84 - fix more grammar issues

* #84 - fix more grammar issues

* Some more :D

* Update #14

* Make changes @root-hal9000 suggested

* Updated Document article

Among other edits, renamed the "document" concept to be called what it actually is, the database - which could help avoid confusion with the concept of "note"

* Changed all references to document to database

-  Changed references to document to say database
- Changed references to "demo document" to "demo notes"
-  renamed document.md to database.md and replaced in links
- Changed location of database in TOC to go under advanced usage
Issue #32

* fixed links change during merge conflict

* #84

* #83

* #82

* #81

* #81

* #79

* #78

* #75

* #74

* #72

* #71

* #68

* #64

* #61

* Review PR #94

* Review PR #94 - Url Encoding

* Add missing images

* add missing image to template.md

* template-create-instance-note.png

* closes #12

* Closes #16

* Closes #17

* Closes #18

* Closes #20

* Closes #31

* clarify the location of options

* add tics around `true` and add newline at end of file

* Remove period from non-sentence lines

* add "(or `viewType` attribute)"

* reference docker installation docs directly instead of other third party website.

* simplify wording

* Update docker image references

* Reference new documentation

* One more docker reference updated

* Remove documenation warning

* Remove warning label

---------

Co-authored-by: root-hal9000 <2352828+root-hal9000@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: MeIchthys <github.com@meichthys.com>

Wiki/tree-concepts.md, after:

# Tree Concepts

This page explains the basic concepts related to the tree structure of notes in TriliumNext.

## Note

A note is the central entity in TriliumNext. For more details, see [Note](note.md).

## Branch

A branch describes the placement of a note within the note tree. Essentially, it is a tuple of `parentNoteId` and `noteId`, indicating that the given note is placed as a child under the specified parent note.

Each note can have multiple branches, meaning any note can be placed in multiple locations within the tree. This concept is referred to as "[cloning](cloning-notes.md)."

## Prefix

A prefix is a branch-specific title modifier for a note. If you place your note in two different locations within the tree and want to alter the title slightly in one of those placements, you can use a prefix.

To edit a prefix, right-click on the note in the tree pane and select "Edit branch prefix."

The prefix is not part of the note itself and is not encrypted when the note is protected. This can be useful if you want part of the title to remain visible in the tree for easier navigation, even when the note is protected.

## Subtree

A subtree consists of a particular note (the subtree root) and all its children and descendants. Some operations, such as exporting, work on entire subtrees.
