Wiki/tree-manipulation.md, before:

# Tree manipulation
This page describes how you can manipulate the note tree - specifically moving notes.

Drag and drop
-------------

You can manipulate the tree simply by dragging and dropping notes as you can see in the demo:

![](images/drag-and-drop.gif)

Keyboard manipulation
---------------------

Trilium provides fast keyboard based manipulation with following [shortcuts](keyboard-shortcuts.md):

*   `CTRL-UP` and `CTRL-DOWN` - move note up or down in the order
*   `CTRL-LEFT` - move note upwards in the hierarchy by changing a note's parent to note's parent's parent.
*   `CTRL-RIGHT` - move note downwards in the hierarchy by setting parent to the note currently above (this is a bit hard to explain - it's best to see a demo or try it for yourself)
*   `LEFT` and `RIGHT` expands and collapses a sub-tree

![](images/move-note-with-keyboard.gif)

Context menu
------------

You can also move notes with familiar cut & paste from context menu or associated keyboard [shortcuts](keyboard-shortcuts.md) `CTRL-X` (cut) and `CTRL-V` (paste).

Commit message:

Initial review -> Master for upcoming Notes release (#101)
* #84

* #84 - fix more grammar issues

* #84 - fix more grammar issues

* Some more :D

* Update #14

* Make changes @root-hal9000 suggested

* Updated Document article

Among other edits, renamed the "document" concept to be called what it actually is, the database - which could help avoid confusion with the concept of "note"

* Changed all references to document to database

-  Changed references to document to say database
- Changed references to "demo document" to "demo notes"
-  renamed document.md to database.md and replaced in links
- Changed location of database in TOC to go under advanced usage
Issue #32

* fixed links change during merge conflict

* #84

* #83

* #82

* #81

* #81

* #79

* #78

* #75

* #74

* #72

* #71

* #68

* #64

* #61

* Review PR #94

* Review PR #94 - Url Encoding

* Add missing images

* add missing image to template.md

* template-create-instance-note.png

* closes #12

* Closes #16

* Closes #17

* Closes #18

* Closes #20

* Closes #31

* clarify the location of options

* add tics around `true` and add newline at end of file

* Remove period from non-sentence lines

* add "(or `viewType` attribute)"

* reference docker installation docs directly instead of other third party website.

* simplify wording

* Update docker image references

* Reference new documentation

* One more docker reference updated

* Remove documenation warning

* Remove warning label

---------

Co-authored-by: root-hal9000 <2352828+root-hal9000@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: MeIchthys <github.com@meichthys.com>

Wiki/tree-manipulation.md, after:

# Tree Manipulation

This page explains how to manipulate the note tree in TriliumNext, focusing on moving notes.

## Drag and Drop

![Drag and drop example](images/drag-and-drop.gif)
You can easily rearrange the note tree by dragging and dropping notes, as demonstrated in the example above.

## Keyboard Manipulation

![Example of using keyboard keys to move a note](images/move-note-with-keyboard.gif)
Trilium offers efficient keyboard-based manipulation using the following [shortcuts](keyboard-shortcuts.md):

- `CTRL-UP` and `CTRL-DOWN`: Move the note up or down in the order.
- `CTRL-LEFT`: Move the note up in the hierarchy by changing its parent to the note's grandparent.
- `CTRL-RIGHT`: Move the note down in the hierarchy by setting its parent to the note currently above it (this action is best understood through a demo or hands-on experience).
- `LEFT` and `RIGHT`: Expand and collapse a sub-tree.

## Context Menu

You can also move notes using the familiar cut and paste functions available in the context menu, or with the associated keyboard [shortcuts](keyboard-shortcuts.md): `CTRL-C` ([copy](cloning-notes.md)), `CTRL-X` (cut) and `CTRL-V` (paste).
