Wiki/upgrading-trilium.md, before:

# Upgrading Trilium
Topic of this page is upgrading Trilium from one version to another.

How to upgrade
--------------

Trilium does not have a built-in auto upgrade - all upgrades have to be done manually. How to do this depends on the installation method:

*   for [docker server installation](docker-server-installation.md) - pull the image of the newer version and restart
*   for all others you need to download new version of the release artifact of your choice from the [release page](https://github.com/TriliumNext/Notes/releases/latest) and replace existing version of the application - i.e. rename/delete the old directory and extract the archive of the new version

Document compatibility and migration
------------------------------------

During Trilium startup, [document](document.md) will be checked whether it conforms to the version supported by the application. In case the document is in the old version, Trilium will automatically migrate it to the new version. This will then mean that the document will not be readable anymore by the older versions of Trilium. In case you want to go back to the old version of the document and Trilium, you can restore the [backed up](backup.md) `backup-before-migration.db` which is created before every migration.

Sync compatibility
------------------

[Synchronization](synchronization.md) protocol is versioned and all members of the sync cluster need to talk in the same protocol version. Therefore, when you are upgrading from one version to another, it might be necessary to upgrade all instances in the cluster.

Change in protocol version is usually indicated on a release page.

Commit message:

Initial review -> Master for upcoming Notes release (#101)
* #84

* #84 - fix more grammar issues

* #84 - fix more grammar issues

* Some more :D

* Update #14

* Make changes @root-hal9000 suggested

* Updated Document article

Among other edits, renamed the "document" concept to be called what it actually is, the database - which could help avoid confusion with the concept of "note"

* Changed all references to document to database

-  Changed references to document to say database
- Changed references to "demo document" to "demo notes"
-  renamed document.md to database.md and replaced in links
- Changed location of database in TOC to go under advanced usage
Issue #32

* fixed links change during merge conflict

* #84

* #83

* #82

* #81

* #81

* #79

* #78

* #75

* #74

* #72

* #71

* #68

* #64

* #61

* Review PR #94

* Review PR #94 - Url Encoding

* Add missing images

* add missing image to template.md

* template-create-instance-note.png

* closes #12

* Closes #16

* Closes #17

* Closes #18

* Closes #20

* Closes #31

* clarify the location of options

* add tics around `true` and add newline at end of file

* Remove period from non-sentence lines

* add "(or `viewType` attribute)"

* reference docker installation docs directly instead of other third party website.

* simplify wording

* Update docker image references

* Reference new documentation

* One more docker reference updated

* Remove documenation warning

* Remove warning label

---------

Co-authored-by: root-hal9000 <2352828+root-hal9000@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: MeIchthys <github.com@meichthys.com>

Wiki/upgrading-trilium.md, after:

# Upgrading TriliumNext

This document outlines the steps required to upgrade Triliumto a new release version.

## How to Upgrade

Triliumdoes not support built-in automatic upgrades; all updates must be performed manually. The upgrade process varies depending on the installation method:

- **[Docker Server Installation](docker-server-installation.md)**: Pull the new image and restart the container.
- **Other Installations**: Download the latest version from the [release page](https://github.com/TriliumNext/Notes/releases/latest) and replace the existing application files.

## Database Compatibility and Migration

Upon startup, Triliumwill automatically migrate the [database](database.md) to the new version. Note that after migration, older versions of Trilium will be unable to read the database. If you need to revert to a previous version of Triliumand its database, you can restore the [backup](backup.md) that is created prior to migration.

## Sync Compatibility

The [synchronization](synchronization.md) protocol used by Triliumis versioned, requiring all members of the sync cluster to use the same protocol version. Therefore, when upgrading to a new version, you may need to upgrade all instances in the sync cluster. Changes to the sync protocol version are typically indicated on the release page.
