Wiki/weight-tracker.md, before:

# Weight-tracker
Weight Tracker is a [Script API](script-api.md) showcase present in the [demo document](document.md).

[Day notes](day-notes.md) shows (among others) how we have "weight" [promoted attribute](promoted-attributes.md) in the day note [template](template.md). This then aggregates the data and shows a nice chart of weight change in time.

Demo
----

![](images/weight-tracker.png)

How to remove Weight Tracker button from the top bar
----------------------------------------------------

In the link map of Weight Tracker, there is a note "Button". Open it and delete or comment out its contents. Weight Tracker button will disappear after you close and open the app.

Implementation
--------------

Note "Weight Tracker" in the screenshot above is of type "Render HTML note". Such note doesn't have any useful content itself, the only purpose of it is to provide a place where some [script](scripts.md) can render some output. This script is defined in [relation](attributes.md) `renderNote` - coincidentally it's the Weight Tracker's child `Implementation`.

This Implementation [code note](code-notes.md) then contains some HTML and JavaScript which loads all the notes with "weight" attribute and displays them in a chart. To actually render chart we're using third party library [chart.js](https://www.chartjs.org/) which is imported as an attachment (it's not built-in into Trilium).

### JS code

To get an idea of the script, here's the "JS code" note content:

```text-plain
async function getChartData() {
    const days = await api.runOnBackend(async () => {
        const notes = api.getNotesWithLabel('weight');
        const days = [];

        for (const note of notes) {
            const date = note.getLabelValue('dateNote');
            const weight = parseFloat(note.getLabelValue('weight'));

            if (date && weight) {
                days.push({ date, weight });
            }
        }

        days.sort((a, b) => a.date > b.date ? 1 : -1);

        return days;
    });

    const datasets = [
        {
            label: "Weight (kg)",
            backgroundColor: 'red',
            borderColor: 'red',
            data: days.map(day => day.weight),
            fill: false,
            spanGaps: true,
            datalabels: {
                display: false
            }
        }
    ];

    return {
        datasets: datasets,
        labels: days.map(day => day.date)
    };
}

const ctx = $("#canvas")[0].getContext("2d");

new chartjs.Chart(ctx, {
    type: 'line',
    data: await getChartData()
});
```

Commit message:

Initial review -> Master for upcoming Notes release (#101)
* #84

* #84 - fix more grammar issues

* #84 - fix more grammar issues

* Some more :D

* Update #14

* Make changes @root-hal9000 suggested

* Updated Document article

Among other edits, renamed the "document" concept to be called what it actually is, the database - which could help avoid confusion with the concept of "note"

* Changed all references to document to database

-  Changed references to document to say database
- Changed references to "demo document" to "demo notes"
-  renamed document.md to database.md and replaced in links
- Changed location of database in TOC to go under advanced usage
Issue #32

* fixed links change during merge conflict

* #84

* #83

* #82

* #81

* #81

* #79

* #78

* #75

* #74

* #72

* #71

* #68

* #64

* #61

* Review PR #94

* Review PR #94 - Url Encoding

* Add missing images

* add missing image to template.md

* template-create-instance-note.png

* closes #12

* Closes #16

* Closes #17

* Closes #18

* Closes #20

* Closes #31

* clarify the location of options

* add tics around `true` and add newline at end of file

* Remove period from non-sentence lines

* add "(or `viewType` attribute)"

* reference docker installation docs directly instead of other third party website.

* simplify wording

* Update docker image references

* Reference new documentation

* One more docker reference updated

* Remove documenation warning

* Remove warning label

---------

Co-authored-by: root-hal9000 <2352828+root-hal9000@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: MeIchthys <github.com@meichthys.com>

Wiki/weight-tracker.md, after:

# Weight-tracker

![screenshot of weight tracker](images/weight-tracker.png)

The `Weight Tracker` is a [Script API](script-api.md) showcase present in the [demo notes](database.md).

By adding `weight` as a [promoted attribute](promoted-attributes.md) in the [template](template.md) from which [day notes](day-notes.md) are created, you can aggregate the data and plot weight change over time.

## Implementation

The `Weight Tracker` note in the screenshot above is of the type `Render Note`. That type of note doesn't have any useful content itself. Instead it is a placeholder where a [script](scripts.md) can render its output.

Scripts for `Render Notes` are defined in a [relation](attributes.md) called `~renderNote`. In this example, it's the `Weight Tracker`'s child `Implementation`. The Implementation consists of two [code notes](code-notes.md) that contain some HTML and JavaScript respectively, which load all the notes with a `weight` attribute and display their values in a chart.

To actually render the chart, we're using a third party library called [chart.js](https://www.chartjs.org/) which is imported as an attachment, since it's not built into Trilium.

### Code

Here's the content of the script which is placed in a [code note](code-notes.md) of type `JS Frontend`:

```js
async function getChartData() {
    const days = await api.runOnBackend(async () => {
        const notes = api.getNotesWithLabel('weight');
        const days = [];

        for (const note of notes) {
            const date = note.getLabelValue('dateNote');
            const weight = parseFloat(note.getLabelValue('weight'));

            if (date && weight) {
                days.push({ date, weight });
            }
        }

        days.sort((a, b) => a.date > b.date ? 1 : -1);

        return days;
    });

    const datasets = [
        {
            label: "Weight (kg)",
            backgroundColor: 'red',
            borderColor: 'red',
            data: days.map(day => day.weight),
            fill: false,
            spanGaps: true,
            datalabels: {
                display: false
            }
        }
    ];

    return {
        datasets: datasets,
        labels: days.map(day => day.date)
    };
}

const ctx = $("#canvas")[0].getContext("2d");

new chartjs.Chart(ctx, {
    type: 'line',
    data: await getChartData()
});
```

## How to remove the Weight Tracker button from the top bar

In the link map of the `Weight Tracker`, there is a note called `Button`. Open it and delete or comment out its contents. The `Weight Tracker` button will disappear after you restart Trilium.
